All right, so the next thing we'll do then
is, we need to start protecting things.
So one, we need to create some
mechanism to protect some of the API
routes that we're gonna make.
We're gonna make API
route to give the user,
an API route to interact with playlist.
We have to find a way to protect that
to make sure that you are who you
say you are.
You're identified, you're authorized.
So we need to make some stuff for that.
And then we also need
to protect the pages.
So the pages as in the index page,
eventually the playlist plays,
a library page.
We wanna make sure that you cannot go
there unless you're signed in as well.
So those are some of the things
that we need to protect basically.
So we'll do that, the first place we'll do
this is probably gonna be on the API site,
because we need to make
API route to get the user.
So we can actually go to the homepage and
see the user and build out the homepage.
But we got to protect that route.
And then we got to protect the page.
So what we'll do is we'll go back to our
files and we will go to pages, api.
Or actually what we'll do is we'll go to,
we'll go to library because we can put all
this stuff in the library,
and it'll be reusable.
So inside a lib,
I'm gonna make a new file.
I'm going to call it off, that's yes.
And here is just going to be like all of
our helpers that we use to help us with
authorization, authentication,
all that good stuff.
So I'm gonna import jwt
from jsonwebtokens or
imports Prisma from our personal library.
So the first function I'm gonna make
is kinda gonna be like a higher order
function that we're gonna use this
middleware to protect our API routes.
So whatever API route that we want to be
protected we'll wrap it in this higher
order function and
we can use this function like
a gatekeeper to access an API route.
So that's what we'll do.
So I'll export a new function here,
and I'll call it validateRoute.
And it's going to be a function
that takes in a handler.
Remember handler is something that
looks like, if you go to pages, api,
any one of these functions
here's a handler.
It's a function that takes a request and
a response.
So we're going to wrap this function.
So that means you got to pass
that function as an argument.
And then what we're going to do is we're
going to return our own version of that.
So we'll return our own handler
that has a request and a response.
And but not before we check the token.
So this function is basically going to
check to make sure that you have a token
in your cookie.
It is a valid token.
It's a valid user and if all that is true,
then we'll call the handler.
If none of that, one of those
things aren't true, then we'll 401,
like you're not valid.
And that's how we're protect our routes.
So there's many ways to do authentication
verification on API routes.
And next js, this is the way that I do it,
I feel like you're in more control
when you can choose what route you
want to wrap with this versus just doing
it everywhere and trying to opt out.
So we'll do it this way.
First thing is get access to
that token via the cookie, so
we can just say req.cookies.
And if you want to get some
autocomplete here, the types for
this is going to be I think
it's like NextApiRequests and
then NextApiResponse if you want
those types, so we get the cookie.
And the name of our cookie is,
that we have it here somewhere
,there we go TRAX_ACCESS_TOKEN.
So probably want to put this in
a constant, or an environment variable or
something like that.
So we'll get the cookie
called TRAX_ACCESS_TOKEN.
Or if you call this something else,
whatever you call it your cookie.
So long names, I'm just gonna rename
it to token because I don't feel
like typing that out many
times that's just super long,
so I'm gonna rename it there so
I restructured it and then I renamed it.
That's what this statement is saying,
so destructuring it so
that's literally like saying const
token=req.cookies.TRAX_ACCESS_TOKEN.
And I would even say this is a better
way because they're both on one line.
So I, [LAUGH] think the extraction really
only matters when you have to do like more
than one thing,
then it's like, that's cool.
But if it's just one thing I mean,
I could honestly just say token.
Equals this is the same thing,
so it's just only helpful
to do it on the next line or
multiple lines of properties.
So we got that and then now we're
gonna say if you have a token,
cool, first check you have a token.
Now let's try to get a user from that
token so we're gonna do some scoping
here because we have to do a try catch
because the last thing we want is for
our whole API to crash because
you sent up a bad token.
We don't want that so we got to wrap this
in a try catch and if you know what?
We're gonna do is try to verify this token
so we'll say, let's try to get the id
back because remember a token when we
signed it with an email, an id and a time.
I'm just interested in id so
I want to get the ID back.
So I'm going to say given
the id if jwt.verify[token] and
we got to pass in the same key.
The same secret that we use
when we signed it was for me,
I think it was just hello,
you can verify by going back and looking.
Here, you see that was my secret,
was hello or whatever you passed it.
So we're gonna get that.
We're gonna get the id here, and
then I'm gonna attempt to find it
using your database with that id.
And this will tell me if you are real or
not.
So, prisma.user.findunique
where  is id.
So that'll give me your user or it won't.
If it does not, if not a user then
I'm just gonna throw an error so
I can land on my catch.
So I was gonna throw_new_Error,
doesn't really matter what you put in
here but this is gonna get caught.
And then if there is an error for
whatever reason then I'm just going to say
res.status[401], you are not allowed and
then res.Json(error) 'Not Authorized'.
Or whatever message you want to put,
I need to put a return because we're going
to continue on and linters getting rid of
it when I hit save because I have no code
after this try catch And
then outside this if statement,
Then we wanna return handler,
With the request, the response, and
then we'll just pass on to user.
Oops, I'm sorry, not outside this
statement, like writing a statement,
there we go, outside the try catch.
And then outside the if statement,
if you don't have a token to begin with.
That's when we'll just say, okay.
We're just gonna do this, right?
We're just gonna for one, Not Authorized.
If you don't even have a token.
Okay, we're not getting
into any of this stuff.
So again, just to walk through this, this
is a higher order function that's going to
wrap our handlers,
is basically making its own handler.
It's checking the token from
the cookie that's always sent up.
Or we're assuming it's sent up where
mandating that you send it up and we're
going to decode that jwt, turn it back to
an object, grab the id property from that.
Go to the database,
find a user with that id,
if all that works out then we'll
call the original handler.
If any one of those things fell at
any point as if there is no token,
there is no valid user, even if our
database broke while we tried to
get the user and it wasn't your fault,
we're still about a 401,
Not Authorized And
then the cool thing we're doing is,
once we get that user we're passing it
along to the next handler so inside of
our routes that use this validate route.
They'll have a third
argument after the response.
And I'll be the user.
So that'd be really cool.
So now what we'll do is we'll go to pages,
api.
We'll make a new Api route for me.
Call me.ts and this is just to
get the user, it'll just get me.
So then I'll import the validateRoute
middleware we just made and
it's gonna be a super short function
because the validateRoute function
already gets the user.
All we have to do is just send it
back here, after rewrap it of course.
So we'll say export default,
validateRoute.
We'll pass it our handler.
And we'll just say req, res, user.
And just res.json (user), that's it.
So again,
this validateRoute wraps our handler.
And it won't call this handler
unless you're authenticated.
And then it gives you the user if it does.
>> Why have the user for
the handler argument?
Great question, so
it's just a design choice.
If we go back to the auth.ts,
the whole point of validating a token,
at least the way that I think about it is,
going that extra step and
making sure that the ID that you
got is actually still a valid user.
You can end up in a scenario where like,
yes, this is a valid jwt.
Yes, we did sign this jwt.
Three days ago but within those three
days this user deleted their profile, so
they no longer exist in our database.
So by doing this extra check of, does
this id even exist in our database and
getting the user we go extra layer of yes,
also this user is valid and
since we already got the user.
Chances are that if there's a route that
needs to be protected, it's probably going
to use that user data for something,
it's probably gonna use that user ID for
something like in the case of getting
the user object, we needed it.
In a case of getting a playlist, we'll
need to only get playlists by the user ID.
In the case of liking a song, we need to
get the user ID to make sure that we're
saving it to that user's favorite.
So chances are if you're
protecting a route,
you probably need some
information about that user.
So why not just pass the user alone.
Therefore, I don't have
to make another query for
the user in the database
when I get to my route.
So if I didn't pass this users
a third argument, when I went into me,
I would have to use Prisma here and
query the database to get the user when I
literally already just did
that inside the validateRoute.
So why do it again, and
this function never runs unless I'm
guaranteed to know that you're validated.
So it's not like I don't
think you're validated.
I need to check your for sure validate it.
And you already asked for
the user, why ask for it again.
So that's why I pass it along
to save some database queries.
Okay, now to protect the pages.
It's got to be a little different.
So many ways you can do this next
is it's like, almost overwhelming.
There's no wrong way.
There's no right way to do this.
But they did just come up
with a really cool feature,
taking advantage of their edge functions.
So if you don't know what
an edge function is I'm gonna
describe it the best way that I can.
An edge function is basically.
So it's you can think of it
as one is a service function.
So we talked about service functions.
All of our API routes
are service functions.
Instead of a server that's
constantly running.
Waiting for
requests to come into service function
is like a call back in that's cloud.
It only gets executed on an event,
which in this case is a route and
a file combination.
Edge function is,
you can think of it as a service
function that sits in
between your origin server.
So in this case, it'll sit in between
the service functions that we have our API
route, and then our client.
It'll sit right on the edge of a CDN.
>> Is there a reason for
not using next.auth for this project.
>> Yeah, the question was, is there
a reason why we're not using next.auth?
Yeah, two reasons.
One, I think next.auth is an overkill for
email password.
I would 100% use next.auth if
I was doing any social auth,
any of that type of jazz,
I would totally use it.
I think I even use it in one of the other
next year's courses that are taught.
So I really love next.auth.
It really got lib I think it's an overkill
for this project and adds a little
complexity to understand just to get
an email password, so that's one reason.
And then two, those others,
yeah, we're not doing social.
So [LAUGH], yeah,
we're just doing email password.
But yeah, next up is really cool.
It abstracts a lot of the stuff
away when it comes to how
often different things like that.
But, yeah, back to edge functions.
So edge functions are, like I said service
functions that sit on the edge of a CDN,
and they act as like middleware.
And this is relatively new technology that
a lot of companies have been creating.
So CloudFlare workers,
lambda edge functions.
There's so many different other
ones Fly IO is another one.
And it's a different environment as well.
So it's not quite, Node js.
So you can't really do like all this.
You can't import Node modules and
do all this other stuff like that.
So it's a little different.
About how it works because it has to be
fast so it can't spin up a whole runtime.
But the really cool thing about it is
that you can do computation on a CDN now
without having to go to your origin
server which just makes your thing so
much faster and
you can do things like AV testing.
Preview mode for content, transfer images,
you can do all different types of
ridiculous things where else before,
five years ago, ten years ago you
can have computation on our heads.
The best thing you can do is
set a header and say that,
this is how long I want this to catch and
then, boom, now you gonna origin.
So, its actually really powerful,
you can build a full app on the edge now,
you don't even need a server anymore.
You just put everything on an edge
function and have a completely functional
app like I've literally built Graph QL
servers on an edge before never talked
to a real server because even
databases work on the edge now.
So depending on what platform you're on